Authentication is a processing of verifying the identity of a user or a clinet.
3 main types of authentication techniques:
Knowledge factor- something you know(passcode, answer to a question)
posession factor- something you have(token)
inherence factor- something you are(biometric, facial scan)

Differences b/w Authentication and Authorisation.?
Authentication is process of verifying the identity of a person who they claim to be. 
Authorisation is the process of verifying whether a person can do something.

How authentication vulnerabilities arise.?
2 ways
- Poor authentication mechanism( easy to bypass by brute force method)
- Poor coding implementation or logic flaws( broken authentication)

Vulnerabilities in authenticaion Mechanisms:
1. Vulnerabilities in password based login
	In this the user is registerd for an accunt or the administrator assigns an 
account with unique username and password.
	Brute-Force Attacks:
		It is a trail and error method to guess the credentials of an user.
		If the website is solely reliable on password to verify the user then 
if there is no sufficient mechanism then it would be compromised by brute force 
method.
	Bruteforcing usernames: firstname.lastname@example_company.com -> publicly 
availale information
	Bruteforcing Passwords:The users may make some predictible changes to the 
passwords like Password1! or password2!@ like this.
	They can be easily guessed by the human knowledge and can be brute forces.
Username Enumeration:
Usernames can be guessed by checking in the login form or the registration form as the 
existing email is entered the website shows the email has already taken.
- Status codes
- Error Messages
- Response Times
Labs:
1. Username enumeraion via different responses.
	Performing dictionar attacks( brute forcing with known usernames)
2. Username enumeration via subtly different response.
	same procesure as above.
Note:
We can use cluster bomb attack to gain both the username and password at once. But it 
is always efficient if we find the username first and the password to that user next.

3. Username enumeration via response timing
	X-Forwardrd-For Header -> to spoof the ip address to bypass the ip based 
login(in case of limited login attempts)

